After going through the previous lesson,
you should feel comfortable writing basic Spark programs.
Up until now, you've been working with data sets on a local machine.
These data sets were small enough to fit in your computer's memory,
so you didn't need a distributed cluster.
But we weren't taking full advantage of what Spark really has to offer,
working on the type of big data problems that we discussed in lesson one.
In this lesson, you'll get Spark running on a distributed cluster,
so you can start to work with big data.
But a quick heads up, you'll find that running
Spark in distributed mode is not always straightforward.
It's common to run into issues with your code or
your data that lead to failed Spark jobs.
So, in this lesson,
you'll not only get Spark running on a cluster,
you'll also learn best practices for debugging and optimizing your Spark programs.
More specifically, you'll set up Spark in
standalone mode which uses a cluster of computers rather than a single node.
You'll work with data stored in popular distributed systems like Amazon's S3 or HDFS.
We'll also learn to catch and fix issues in your code and
data using the Spark web UI for debugging.
We'll optimize your code to work with big data more efficiently,
and we'll understand the most common Spark
issues you'll run into and learn how to resolve them.
By the end of the lesson,
you'll know how to run Spark on a cluster,
and you will have a clear process for fixing
issues when your Spark program doesn't work as expected.